---
title: Backdoor CTF 2023 
date: 2023-12-18 00:00:00 +0530
categories: [CTF]
tags: [cryptography]
math: true
---

InfosecIITR hosted the annual CTF, "Backdoor CTF," which ran for an impressive 48 hours, starting from the 16th of December to the 18th of December. This was the first time I participated as a CTF organizer and a problem setter. Also, it was a huge event this time, with approximately 1300 teams registering and 800 teams having a non-zero score. I was anxious as well as excited to contribute by proposing problems for the event. In the end, I set a total of six problems, with crux ideas for two out of those six challenges. All the cryptography problems can be found <a href="https://github.com/MmukulKhedekar/BackdoorCTF2023-Crypto">here</a>. I personally found <a href="https://connor-mccartney.github.io/cryptography/other/BackdoorCTF-2023-writeups">this</a> writeup to be really cool and concise. Apart from that, <a href="https://ctfwriteups.org/ctfs/658035f233b399e7fe20f655/edit">this</a> is a cool collection of writeups. 

I'll quickly explain a background of how i came up with these problems and a sketch of how to solve them.

## mini_RSA_v1 [310 solves]

my idea. we initially wanted to make a problem revolving around the cool identity

$$
    p ^ q + q ^ p \equiv p + q \pmod{p \cdot q}
$$

but then we realised that this problem had already appeared in contest earlier this year, so we had to scrap that. then i realised that infact for any integers $a$ and $b$, it holds that 

$$
    p ^ \left( q ^ a\right) + q ^ \left( p ^ b\right) \equiv p + q \pmod{p \cdot q}
$$

and hence the problem

## mini_RSA_v2 [77 solves]

i kinda overlooked the small size of the public exponent $e$ in the RSA encryption that lead to the unintended small exponent attack on the problem. since that wasn't the intended solve, we rolled out the v2 of the problem with a larger public exponent ($e = 65537$). now the intended way to solve this calculate the euler totient function of the public modulus using the extra leaked info ($s + t = p + q$).

## PRSA [70 solves]

i know this was a kinda popular problem. there are lots of texts and implementations based on RSA on polynomial rings that you can find with a single google search. nevertheless, i wanted it to be an introductory "sage" based problem, so i let it slip anyway.

a quick description of the problem would be the textbook RSA problem but instead on polynomial rings instead of the ring of two coprime primes. the intended way to solve this was to factor the public modulus polynomial into two irreducible polynomials in the given polynomial ring and evaluate the euler totient using 

$$
    \mid \mathbb{F}[\,x\,]^{\star} / \left(P_1(x) \cdot P_2(x)\right) \mid = \mid \mathbb{F}[\,x\,]^{\star} / P_1(x) \times \mathbb{F}[\,x\,]^{\star} / P_2(x) \mid = \left(2 ^{\text{deg} \left(P_1(x) \right)} - 1 \right) \times \left(2 ^{\text{deg} \left(P_2(x) \right)} - 1 \right)
$$

then using the euler totient, we calculate the private exponent and decrypt the message. 

there was an unintended solve, where you brute force over the degree of the polynomials to reverse engineer the original polynomial degree (since the degrees were small). i had realised that there could be this unintended solve when i wrote this problem, but i let it slip since i wanted this problem to be more about reading and writing sage codes.

## Rebellious [16 solves]

again a straight forward DLOG problem, but instead of implementing the system over an elliptic curve, i chose an ellipse. there were many approaches to this problem and i remember someone even claiming that this problem was deeply flawed as well lmao. nevertheless, the intended solution was to observe that $p \equiv 1 \pmod{4}$. that means, imaginary numbers exist in this prime field. now you can observe that

$$
\frac{x^2}{a^2} + \frac{y^2}{b^2} \equiv \left(\frac{x}{a} + \sqrt{-1} \frac{y}{b} \right) \cdot \left(\frac{x}{a} - \sqrt{-1} \frac{y}{b} \right) \equiv 1 \pmod{p}
$$

if we let $ u = \left(\frac{x}{a} + \sqrt{-1} \frac{y}{b} \right)$ and $ v = \left(\frac{x}{a} - \sqrt{-1} \frac{y}{b} \right)$, it can be observed that 

$$
    v \equiv u ^ {-1} \pmod{p}
$$

and similarly you can show that there's an isomorphism mapping from the given group to $\mathbb{F}_p$ explicity given by

$$
    \phi \left( P (x, y)\right) = \left(\frac{x}{a} + \sqrt{-1} \frac{y}{b} \right) \pmod{p} 
$$

now transform the problem to this prime field and solve the DLOG. i purposely chose $p$ to be an unsafe prime so that people choose this approach.

## Secure Matrix Transmissions [20 solves]

i was motivated by the fact that the diagonal matrix in the matrix diagonalization contains the eigenvalues of the matrix and so i made this problem. i purposely chose a small $N = 6$ so that this becomes the intended approach as even naive brute would require $(N! \times N!)$ operations and thats not too big.

i think someone even pwned sage to solve this problem TwT. god bless these people

## Secure Matrix Transmissions v2 [1 solve]

this was problem was implemented from <a href="https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1515/jmc.2011.010/html">this paper</a> under the heading BCFRX scheme. i really didnt want to throw problems based off papers directly but i had no other choice since the teams on this CTF were really good at cryptography and had butchered almost all the other cryptography problems.

to solve this problem, one may implement the linear algebra attack of solving simultaneous systems of equations as described in the paper. otherwise, as pointed out by Neobeo <a href="https://discord.com/channels/916568950375059476/916693278701781103/1187542230345470052">here</a> we may lift the group from $\mathbb{F}\_{p}$ to $\mathbb{F}_{p^{10}}$ to diagonalise and solve for the shared secret as all the eigenvalues of the given matrices exist in the latter.


